Question 5, match the resource
hints with their definitions.
So we have dns-prefetch,
preconnect, prefetch, and preload.
And then prioritizes fetching
of crucial resources needed for
the current navigation, performs domain
name resolution in the background,
3 is proactively performs DNS
resolution and TCP/TLS handshake,
or 4, requests non-critical
resources in the background?
All right, let's look at the answer.
So AS2 dns-prefetch performs domain
name resolution in the background.
Preconnect proactively performs DNS
resolution and TCP/TLS handshake.
Prefetch requests non critical
resources in the background.
And preload prioritizes fetching
of critical resources needed for
the current navigation.
So first, when we talk about having an
http request, it's not just a request and
the response it also usually includes
the DNS that we saw previously.
Also the TCP connection to establish
the acts and all that stuff to
establish that connection between
the client and the server.
And if it's secure, so if it uses https,
it also needs to have the TLS handshake
which basically ensures that both a client
and a server have the same certificate.
This is that secure
connection that we expect.
Now with, or yeah, so
whenever we don't use DNS prefetch and
we're making a request to an external
resource, it includes all of these steps.
But with DNS prefetch,
we can already say, hey,
I know that this resource is
pretty critical, I will use it.
So let's already perform that DNS
resolution before I request the resource.
So in that case, I only have to still
do the TCP/TLS request and response.
Now we can even go a step further with
preconnect because that doesn't only
use the DNS, or not just DNS, but
also includes the TCP and TLS.
So in that case can be
the connection is already there,
you just have to use, or you just have
the request and then the response.
Now, it's important to remember that
you shouldn't overuse DNS prefetch and
preconnect because you're still
establishing a connection.
And they kind of all fight for bandwidth.
So if you're doing this it might happen
if you're on a lower end device or
poor network connections that
you're preconnecting but
then other resources might need
to wait which actually return,
or it's a worse user experience.
Yeah, there's also a maximum number
of simultaneous connections that
a browser can have.
So make sure that you're
only kind of doing this for
external resources that you might
need on initial load maybe.
I don't know, like Google fonts,
Google APIs, that kind of stuff.
So the next one was prefetch which
download resources ahead of time even if
they aren't immediately needed.
So maybe in this case we have user
interaction maybe they click on something,
maybe they navigate to another page.
And then it requests a very important
resource maybe it's that in this case
a picture of a dog that will
get displayed instantly.
So with prefetch we can already say, hey,
I know that I will need this resource
pretty soon or like probably.
So if it's possible, if you're idle and
if you have an bandwidth and
if the browser thinks, all right, I can
just prefetch this resource, it's fine.
It won't negatively
affect the performance,
it can already prefetch it and
then store it in browser cache.
So whenever we actually need the resource,
it can just quickly get it from cache.
Again, important to remember that prefetch
can be skipped by browsers if they feel
they just don't have enough bandwidth or
if the user has data saving mode on,
all that stuff.
So, yeah, then we have a more
aggressive one which is preload.
So normally whenever we have the HTML
there is something called like a preload
scanner or
prescanner that browsers implement,
which runs at the same
time as your HTML parser.
So if your HTML parser is blocked,
that prescanner can still continue
looking through all the resources.
And seeing, okay,
I'm requesting images here, and links,
whatever, it can already
fetch all of those things.
But that's only for your markup, and
not for CSS, or maybe scripts that import
other scripts, all that stuff,
the preload scanner cannot see that.
But for example,
in this case we have a background
image like your image in the CSS and
let's say that this background image
is already displayed on the first page.
In that case we can say the browser,
hey, preload this asset I know
you wouldn't have been able to see that
yourself with your preload scanner.
So instead,
I will tell you preload this because I
will need it very soon after navigation.
It's important to remember
that this is only for
very critical resources because
your browser cannot ignore this.
So it might easily lead to
worse user experience because
you're using a network connection for
that preload.
And especially, also for mobile users,
don't overuse it because it'll cost data,
and that's expensive.
So, yeah.
>> Can you explain the AES parameters?
Is that something?
>> Yeah, so I see like as image here, so
you can have as image, as document I'm-
>> Multiple.
>> Yeah, I'm honestly not sure how this,
I mean, I think it just has something to
do with how your browser fetches,
what kind of request headers to send.
I may be wrong here, I know that it
does add some optimization stuff,
but I'm not entirely sure how.
But, yeah, so in this case we have the ASE
image cuz we're fetching an image.
Otherwise, if you have HTML, you do it
as documents, all that kind of stuff.
But again, just important to remember
the browsers are very smart, and
they already do so
many optimizations under the hood.
So using resources like this can help,
but don't rely on it as the sole,
the only thing.